Document job limitations (#2061)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/guides/job-limits.mdx

---
title: Job limits
description: Job limits imposed by the job validation service for jobs sent to IBM QPUs.

---
# Job limits

When you send a job to an IBM&reg; QPU, it is first sent to the job validation service.  This service tries to ensure that the job will be able to run on the QPU so you don't have to wait for it to go through the queue and then have the job fail.  These checks include enforcing the described limits.

<Admonition type="note">
Certain primitive options increase the circuit size.  The described limits are checked _after_ the expected increase in circuit size. In particular, these options increase circuit size:

>   - Dynamical decoupling introduces additional 1-qubit gates that are included in the instructions for the [Maximum number of low-level instructions per qubit](#per-qubit) limit.
>   - Gate-folding ZNE introduces additional 2-qubit gates relevant to the [Maximum number of 2-qubit gates per job](#2-cubit-limit) limit. The number of 2-qubit gates is multiplied by the largest noise factor requested in gate-folding ZNE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Dynamical decoupling introduces additional single-qubit gates that are included in the instructions for the [Maximum number of low-level instructions per qubit](#per-qubit) limit.
  - Gate-folding ZNE introduces additional two-qubit gates relevant to the [Maximum number of two-qubit gates per job](#2-qubit-limit) limit. The number of two-qubit gates is multiplied by the largest noise factor requested in gate-folding ZNE.
```

</Admonition>

<span id="max-shots"></span>
## Maximum executions

> At most **5 million** executions are allowed.  The number of executions is the number of circuits times the number of shots, where the circuits are those generated after PUB elements are broadcasted.
> 
> For example, if you have a PUB with 1 circuit, observables with shape (1, 6), and parameters with shape (4, 1), this would render 4 * 6 = 24 circuits (or fewer, if the observables are commutable). If you requested 2,000 shots, then total number of executions is 24 * 2,000 = 48,000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At most, **5 million** executions are allowed.  The number of executions is the number of circuits times the number of shots, where the circuits are those generated after PUB elements are broadcasted.

For example, if you have a PUB with one circuit, observables with shape (1, 6), and parameters with shape (4, 1), this would render 4 * 6 = 24 circuits (or fewer, if the observables are commutable). If you requested 2,000 shots, then the total number of executions is 24 * 2,000 = 48,000.
```

> For example, if you have a PUB with one circuit, observables with shape (1, 6), and parameters with shape (4, 1), this would render $4 * 6 = 24$ circuits (or fewer, if the observables are commutable). If you requested 2,000 shots, then the total number of executions is $24 * 2,000 = 48,000$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you have a PUB with one circuit, observables with shape (1, 6), and parameters with shape (4, 1), this would render $4 * 6 = 24$ circuits (or fewer, if some observables commute). If you requested 2,000 shots, then the total number of executions is $24 * 2,000 = 48,000$.
```

<span id="per-qubit"></span>
## Maximum number of low-level instructions per qubit

> The system permits up to **32 million instructions per qubit**. This ensures that the user circuits fit within the control system's instruction memory.  The following table describes how the system translates instruction set architecture (ISA) circuit instructions to control system instructions when calculating this limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The system permits up to **32 million instructions per qubit**. This ensures that the user circuits fit within the control system's instruction memory.  The following table describes how the system translates instruction set architecture (ISA) circuit instructions to control system instructions when calculating this limit.
```
Does `system` here mean something other than QPU? Should replace with QPU if not

> The service permits up to **32 million instructions per qubit**. This ensures that the user circuits fit within the control system's instruction memory.  The following table describes how the system translates instruction set architecture (ISA) circuit instructions to control system instructions when calculating this limit.

Reviewer 2: I think we probably need to clarify that the limit applies to control-system instructions, i.e.:
```suggestion
The service permits up to **32 million control-system instructions per qubit**. This ensures that the user circuits fit within the control system's instruction memory.  The following table describes how the system translates instruction set architecture (ISA) circuit instructions to control system instructions when calculating this limit.
```

> | Instruction | Count |

Reviewer 2: In the preview, this table as rendering as full width which makes it difficult to read. It isn't a blocker, but we should figure out how to render narrow tables.

Author: @Eric-Arellano - is there a way to control the table width? Thanks!

Reviewer 3: I'll create an issue to improve the width of tables with few columns and we'll try to fix this soon.

|:-----------:|:-----:|
| `rz`          | 1     |
| `delay`       | 1     |
| `sx`          | 2     |
| `x`           | 2     |
| `cx`          | 5     |
| `cz`          | 5     |
| `ecr`         | 5     |
| `measure`     | 10    |
| `reset`       | 17    |

> | `init`        | 50    |

Reviewer 2: Below this table, can we add:

Note that this table captures the heuristic used in validation and does not reflect the exact number of instructions used to implement an operation.

<span id="2-qubit-limit"></span>

> ## Maximum number of 2-qubit gates per job
> 
> This ensures that the job can be manipulated within the memory limits of the low-level software stack. The actual limit depends on the options selected in the Sampler or Estimator query. However, the 2-qubit gate limit per job lower bound is **10,000 2-qubit gates**. That is, if a job has fewer than 10,000 2-qubit gates, it typically passes validation. Some jobs might allow more, and the service will calculate the limit allowed for the user-selected options and communicate that in the validation error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Maximum number of two-qubit gates per job

This ensures that the job can be manipulated within the memory limits of the low-level software stack. The actual limit depends on the options selected in the Sampler or Estimator query. However, the two-qubit gate limit per job lower bound is **10,000 two-qubit gates**. That is, if a job has fewer than 10,000 two-qubit gates, it typically passes validation. Some jobs might allow more, and the service will calculate the limit allowed for the user-selected options and communicate that in the validation error message.
```

> This ensures that the job can be manipulated within the memory limits of the low-level software stack. The actual limit depends on the options selected in the Sampler or Estimator query. However, the two-qubit gate limit per job lower bound is **10,000 two-qubit gates**. That is, if a job has fewer than 10,000 two-qubit gates, it typically passes validation. Some jobs might allow more, and the service will calculate the limit allowed for the user-selected options and communicate that in the validation error message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This ensures that the job can be manipulated within the memory limits of the low-level software stack. The precise limit depends on the options selected in the Sampler or Estimator query. However, if a job has fewer than 10,000 two-qubit gates, it will pass validation. Some options might allow more, and the service will calculate the limit allowed for the user-selected options and communicate that should your job be rejected in validation.
```
